Hi friends
In this video we are going to learn function declaration
and function definition
First of all let us discuss about function declaration
Let us see the syntax for declaring a function
So to declare a function we should specify the function
return type, function name and function parameters within parenthesis and
at last a semi colon
So what is this return type It can be selected
according to what type of data the function is returning
It can be char int float double etcetera or it
can be even void
If the function does not return anything next we have
the function name. We should give a meaningful function name
For example If we want to write a programme to
Act two numbers we can declare function name as add
or sum
Then we have function parameters which refers to the
input which are passed
While calling the function. we have to specify the parameters
inside the parenthesis
For example if we want to declare a function which
will have 2 integer input parameters num1 and num2
then write int num1, int num2
like this. Now let us see an example
Let's declare a function which will have 2 integer
input parameters and returns the sum of these two integers
So sum will be an integer value
So declare return type as int.  we are going to calculate
the sum of two numbers so we can name it
add or sum. Parameters will be 2 integers so
specify it here and finally a semi colon and writing
The parameter name is actually optional here but
datatype of parameter is mandatory so we can also declare
the same function like this without writing the parameter names
We can also declare functions without any parameters and return
type just dont right anything in place of parameters and
give a name to the function and write void as
the return type
Now let's discuss about function definition
This is where we actually implement the task
For example we are going to write a function to
add two numbers and return
their sum. So we can write the code like this
A new variable to store
The result is created
A+B is calculated and stored in it and
return
So what is the difference between function declaration and function
definition? In the function declaration we are giving information about
the function to the compiler
Like this function will be returning an integer value
and it will take two parameters
Both of integer type etcetera But in function definition we're
actually implementing the function using a group of statements
And the objective here is to find the sum of
A and B and return it
It can be done in any way
Here we are creating a variable and storing sum to it
and then returning
It can also be directly returned like this
So that's all and thank you for watching this video